readme.md, before:

# Wireshark Monitor
Monitor is a name for group of devices which are able to only read and aggregate traffic from various buses into Wireshark via TCP socket. This option gives me ability to use dissector scripts, however downside is preprocessing of most of the data in a firmware into frames.

## Use Case
 * **Aggregate CAN traffic** 
 * **Aggregate ISO9141 traffic via RAW** Simple postprocessing via LUA dissectors possible.
 * **Aggregate ISO15765 traffic via RAW** Simple postprocessing via LUA dissectors possible. !! *Implement switch on Monitor devices to indicate if we want raw CAN or ISO15765 / TP2.0 traffic.*
 * **Aggregate FlexRay traffic** Simple postprocessing via LUA dissectors possible.
 * **Aggregate SWO output from STM32 processors**

## Protocol
However with this approach there are some problems. First I can trace `CAN, DoIP and FlexRay*` however **I can't** trace `VWTP20, ISO9141, KW1281 and ISO15765*` For those protocols I was forced to create dummy IPV4 header and then put those packets at a top of it. Adding of those 20 bytes header will give me ability to preprocess data in a some local device and send whole frame into Wireshark via TCP socket

**ISO15765** There is ISO15765 dissector in Wireshark, but it is useless crap. It is not grouping multiple packets into one: i.e. you will have 20 CAN messages of conseq. frames. Dissector will just fancy mark them, but not hide them into one line. Second big problem is inability to see errors: i.e. You have SEQ on conseq frame 1,2,4 with mising 3. That is obvious error. But not for this dissector. This dissector just don't care. Previous errors also screws up follow up fancy marking, but sometimes it recovers...  
**FlexRay** Wireshark pretends that it supports FlexRay, but I am missing to see name of link layer to parse it from.  

### TCP protocol
[There is not much information in official wireshark guide on TCP sockets]("https://wiki.wireshark.org/CaptureSetup/Pipes") just only this example:  
```
wireshark -k -i TCP@127.0.0.1:19000
```
However using enclosed NamedPipes codes I was able to figure out what kind of bytes Wireshark expects so I can port this knowledge on Monitor Devices.

Any TCP server is waiting on connection from Wireshark. When Wireshark opens TCP connection, server will send start packet:
```
D4-C3-B2-A1-02-00-04-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-FF-FF-00-00-65-00-00-00

Where:
    D4-C3-B2-A1 = Magic number: A1B2C3D4
    02-00 = Version Major: 2
    04-00 = Version Minor: 4
    00-00-00-00 = Thiszone: 0
    00-00-00-00 = Sigfigs: 0
    FF-FF-00-00 = Snaplen: 65535
    65-00-00-00 = Link layer ID: 101 for RAW packets or 227 for SocketCAN packets
```
Except Link Layer ID, everything is a constant. It is important to point out that you **CAN NOT** mix SocketCAN data and datagram data. You need to specify format at the start of the trace

### Packet header
When we are sending a packet, first we will send a packet header. Then we will send body of packet (depends on Link Layer)
```
00-00-00-00 00-00-00-00-10-00-00-00-10-00-00-00

Where:
    00-00-00-00 = Time Stamp seconds.
    00-00-00-00 = Time Stamp micro seconds
    10-00-00-00 = Size of packet saved in a file = 16 bytes of body
    10-00-00-00 = Actual size of packet = 16 bytes of body
```

### CAN Packet
If we are using Link Layer for Socket CAN, then we will be sending always 16 bytes of data (in packet header).
```
00-00-07-EF-08-00-00-00-01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08

Where:
    00-00-07-EF = CAN ID (See BE!)
    08-00-00-00 = DLC
    01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08 = CAN Data
```
### Datagram Packet
If we are using Link Layer for RAW packets, then we will send IPV4 header (20 bytes) followed by our datagram (N bytes). Then into packet header we will write 20+N bytes to be expected.
```
45-00-00-16-00-02-40-00-80-94-00-00-C0-A8-00-01-00-00-07-E0-3E-00

Where:
    45 = Version 4, 5 words (20 bytes)
    00 = Differential services.
    00-16 = Size of IP datagram + our datagram = 22 bytes
    00-02 = Identification or sequence. Increment here some number with every packet sent
    40-00 = Don't fragemnt
    80 = TTL
    94 = ISO15765 frame. I am coding protocol as 0x90 + Enum. See below
    00-00 = Header checksum
    C0-A8-00-01 = Source IP address. Not used for my purpose.
    00-00-07-E0 = Destination IP address. Used for Identification field of datagram.
    3E-00 = Data of datagram.
```
Coding of protocol is used by Wireshark to apply dissectors, like TCP, UDP, ... Using byte 0x90 means that protocol at this moment is undefined for Wireshark and I can specify my own. Current coding of protocols is as 0x90 + Protocol Constant:
```
ISO14230 = 1,
KW1281 = 2,
VWTP20 = 3,
ISO15765 = 4,
```
### Example of whole communication
```
Start packet: D4-C3-B2-A1-02-00-04-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-FF-FF-00-00-E3-00-00-00

Data packet header: 00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-10-00-00-00-10-00-00-00
Data packet: 00-00-07-EF-08-00-00-00-01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08

Data packet header: 00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-10-00-00-00-10-00-00-00
Data packet: 00-00-07-EF-08-00-00-00-01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08
```

Commit message:

Described behavior of Error / Warning formatting

readme.md, after:

# Wireshark Monitor
Monitor is a name for group of devices which are able to only read and aggregate traffic from various buses into Wireshark via TCP socket. This option gives me ability to use dissector scripts, however downside is preprocessing of most of the data in a firmware into frames.

## Use Case
 * **Aggregate CAN traffic** 
 * **Aggregate ISO9141 traffic via RAW** Simple postprocessing via LUA dissectors possible.
 * **Aggregate ISO15765 traffic via RAW** Simple postprocessing via LUA dissectors possible. !! *Implement switch on Monitor devices to indicate if we want raw CAN or ISO15765 / TP2.0 traffic.*
 * **Aggregate FlexRay traffic** Simple postprocessing via LUA dissectors possible.
 * **Aggregate SWO output from STM32 processors**

## Protocol
However with this approach there are some problems. First I can trace `CAN, DoIP and FlexRay*` however **I can't** trace `VWTP20, ISO9141, KW1281 and ISO15765*` For those protocols I was forced to create dummy IPV4 header and then put those packets at a top of it. Adding of those 20 bytes header will give me ability to preprocess data in a some local device and send whole frame into Wireshark via TCP socket

**ISO15765** There is ISO15765 dissector in Wireshark, but it is useless crap. It is not grouping multiple packets into one: i.e. you will have 20 CAN messages of conseq. frames. Dissector will just fancy mark them, but not hide them into one line. Second big problem is inability to see errors: i.e. You have SEQ on conseq frame 1,2,4 with mising 3. That is obvious error. But not for this dissector. This dissector just don't care. Previous errors also screws up follow up fancy marking, but sometimes it recovers...  
**FlexRay** Wireshark pretends that it supports FlexRay, but I am missing to see name of link layer to parse it from.  

### TCP protocol
[There is not much information in official wireshark guide on TCP sockets]("https://wiki.wireshark.org/CaptureSetup/Pipes") just only this example:  
```
wireshark -k -i TCP@127.0.0.1:19000
```
However using enclosed NamedPipes codes I was able to figure out what kind of bytes Wireshark expects so I can port this knowledge on Monitor Devices.

Any TCP server is waiting on connection from Wireshark. When Wireshark opens TCP connection, server will send start packet:
```
D4-C3-B2-A1-02-00-04-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-FF-FF-00-00-65-00-00-00

Where:
    D4-C3-B2-A1 = Magic number: A1B2C3D4
    02-00 = Version Major: 2
    04-00 = Version Minor: 4
    00-00-00-00 = Thiszone: 0
    00-00-00-00 = Sigfigs: 0
    FF-FF-00-00 = Snaplen: 65535
    65-00-00-00 = Link layer ID: 101 for RAW packets or 227 for SocketCAN packets
```
Except Link Layer ID, everything is a constant. It is important to point out that you **CAN NOT** mix SocketCAN data and datagram data. You need to specify format at the start of the trace

### Packet header
When we are sending a packet, first we will send a packet header. Then we will send body of packet (depends on Link Layer)
```
00-00-00-00 00-00-00-00-10-00-00-00-10-00-00-00

Where:
    00-00-00-00 = Time Stamp seconds.
    00-00-00-00 = Time Stamp micro seconds
    10-00-00-00 = Size of packet saved in a file = 16 bytes of body
    10-00-00-00 = Actual size of packet = 16 bytes of body
```

### CAN Packet
If we are using Link Layer for Socket CAN, then we will be sending always 16 bytes of data (in packet header).
```
00-00-07-EF-08-00-00-00-01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08

Where:
    00-00-07-EF = CAN ID (See BE!)
    08-00-00-00 = DLC
    01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08 = CAN Data
```
### Datagram Packet
If we are using Link Layer for RAW packets, then we will send IPV4 header (20 bytes) followed by our datagram (N bytes). Then into packet header we will write 20+N bytes to be expected.
```
45-00-00-16-00-02-40-00-80-94-00-00-C0-A8-00-01-00-00-07-E0-3E-00

Where:
    45 = Version 4, 5 words (20 bytes)
    00 = Differential services.
    00-16 = Size of IP datagram + our datagram = 22 bytes
    00-02 = Identification or sequence. Increment here some number with every packet sent
    40-00 = Don't fragemnt
    80 = TTL
    94 = ISO15765 frame. I am coding protocol as 0x90 + Enum. See below
    00-00 = Header checksum
    C0-A8-00-01 = Source IP address. Not used for my purpose.
    00-00-07-E0 = Destination IP address. Used for Identification field of datagram.
    3E-00 = Data of datagram.
```
Coding of protocol is used by Wireshark to apply dissectors, like TCP, UDP, ... Using byte 0x90 means that protocol at this moment is undefined for Wireshark and I can specify my own. Current coding of protocols is as 0x90 + Protocol Constant:
```
ISO14230 = 1,
KW1281 = 2,
VWTP20 = 3,
ISO15765 = 4,
...
Warning = 0x6B,
Error = 0x6C,
```
During preprocesing data in separated devices, we can encounter an error or warning. From this reason there is a simple mechanism to show this error to user via `ip.proto == 0xFC` for error or `ip.proto == 0xFB` for Warning. Preprocessing device will provide ASCII string describing the error, which will be shown in `Info` column of Wireshark with Error or Warning coloring rules.

### Example of whole communication
```
Start packet: D4-C3-B2-A1-02-00-04-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-FF-FF-00-00-E3-00-00-00

Data packet header: 00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-10-00-00-00-10-00-00-00
Data packet: 00-00-07-EF-08-00-00-00-01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08

Data packet header: 00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-10-00-00-00-10-00-00-00
Data packet: 00-00-07-EF-08-00-00-00-01-02-03-04-05-06-07-08
```
